---
title: SPREAD4
permalink: spread4.html
sidebar: beast_sidebar
tags: [programs]
keywords: software, spread4, beast
last_updated: March 12, 2022
summary: "SPREAD4"
toc: true
folder: beast/programs
---

## SPREAD4

SPREAD4 (Spatial Phylogenetic Reconstruction of Evolutionary Dynamics 4) is a major update to [SPREAD](spread) and [SpreaD3](spread3) and constitutes a package for analysis and visualization of pathogen phylogeographic reconstructions.

### Using SPREAD4

SPREAD4 can be accessed directly here: [https://spreadviz.org/](https://spreadviz.org/)

There is no need to install any software. You only need either a Google account or an e-mail address (and an internet connection) to make use of SPREAD4, which runs entirely online. The analyses that can be visualized in SPREAD are typically obtained using [BEAST](about). However, it can also accommodate input generated by other phylogenetic inference tools, as long as the nodes and branches are annotated using the compatible syntax.

SPREAD4 is compatible with popular browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge).

### Frequently asked questions

1. Where can I see my uploaded files?
A. 

2. How do I save my custom visualization(s)? \
A. Any custom visualization can be exported as a Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) file that can be used for publication-ready figures.

[comment]: <> (not sure if you can store the visualizations after customizing them online in SPREAD... I do not think so)

3. How can I share my visualizations with others? \
A. 

4. What do you mean by a discrete rate visualization? What files do I need to have for such a visualization? \
A.

5. What do you mean by a discrete MCC visualization? What files do I need to have for such a visualization? \
A. 

6. What do you mean by a continuous MCC visualization? What files do I need to have for such a visualization? \
A. 

7. I do not have a locations file, where do I download it from? \
A:  https://geojson-maps.ash.ms/ + centroid calculation using GeoJSON parsing packages in Python/R 

8. I entered the wrong information for the most recent sampling date. What do I do? \
A.

9. I entered the wrong information for the locations. What do I do? \
A. 

10. Why can I not see the transitions ? \
A.

11. How do I change the colour of transitions from solid to a gradient ? \
A. 

12. How do I upload my own map ? \
A. 

13. Where can I find such a map? \ 
A. https://geojson-maps.ash.ms/

14. Why are my map locations inverted in the visualization? \
A. Longitude is X axis and Latitude is the Y-axis

15. How do I view my transitions as missiles ? \
A. When the transition drop-down is viewed, toggle `missiles` to the right to view transitions as missiles. 

16. I did not receive an email to log in to SPREAD. What do I do? \
A. SPREAD log in email could be treated as [SPAM?] by firewalls so make sure you check your junk/spam folder.


### Citing SPREAD4

Nahata, K. D., Bielejec, F., Monetta, J., Rambaut, A., Suchard, M. A., Baele, G., Lemey, P. SPREAD 4:

{% include links.html %}
